Manufacturing a drug encompasses the use of a sequence of chemical and physical transformations, with each one of such transformations having a variety of modes in which it can be executed.  A natural way, and one often used in the pharmaceutical industry, is to perform each operation batchwise, where the next step in the sequence must wait until the previous one is completed. In its counterpart continuous mode, material continuously flows from one operation to the other. A combination of the two, also used frequently, constitutes hybrid operation.
Continuous operating mode has some advantages that has led the industry to adopt it in the last couple decades. Among others, use of smaller equipment, lowering storage and exposure to of potentially hazardous materials, or more consistent product quality have motivated the adoption of this type of manufacturing. Nevertheless, for a continuous process to operate steadily, an initial start-up period must be overcome. During this period, materials and time are spent, and off-spec product must be discarded before nominal operation is realized. Depending on how slow or fast the dynamics of the operations are, start-up times can take up a considerable amount of time relative to process time horizon. Particularly, for low-volume, high value pharmaceutical assets produced in relatively short campaigns (spanning days or weeks), start-up time can severely impact process economics and environmental performance. 
With all these considerations in mind, it is reasonable to ask how one can tell which process configuration is better? Is it end-to-end batch/continuous the way to go? If the decision is to operate in hybrid mode, how to configure the process and which units would run batchwise and which ones continuously? On top of this decision, which criteria should be used to rank the evaluated alternatives?
Given the number of possibilities that arise from the many ways a pharmaceutical process may be configured, it is admittedly unpractical to evaluate each of those alternatives by running experiments in the laboratory or manufacturing plant. Instead, process analysis using process models and in-silico tools is now a common place in academia and industry and can help to shed light into the questions we asked ourselves in this paper. This brings us to the main purpose of our paper: to build a framework to systematically answers the questions above on a fair basis. 
The last point is probably one that took us a while to sort out, both conceptually and at the computational level. Being the alternatives to compare so different from the structural standpoint, a key aspect of our work was to define a set of unifying criteria that allowed fair comparison. The answer in our case lied in mathematical optimization. By formulating a reasonable optimization problem, all the evaluated process configurations would meet the same set of constraints (e.g. production rate, operational limits) and would aim for maximum economic performance, setting a baseline for side to side comparison.
Our work brings together the analysis of process dynamics and process economics into a framework that leverages mathematical modeling via the use of PharmaPy [1] and process optimization for fast evaluation of pharmaceutical operating modes. With this, we try to contribute to the current discussion on the use of continuous manufacturing in the pharmaceutical industry. Moreover, we try to bring attention to the need of early evaluation of process configurations on an individual basis, and how doing so has the potential to select the most economical and environmentally performant operating scenarios.

1.	Casas-Orozco, D., et al., PharmaPy: An object-oriented tool for the development of hybrid pharmaceutical flowsheets. Computers & Chemical Engineering, 2021. 153.

